First of all I'd like to thank the authors for developing this software package
which represents a valuable resource for many researchers. I think the
manuscript describes the software well, the code is high-quality and the
documentation is comprehensive.

That being said, I have a few comments that I would appreciate to see
implemented in a final version of this manuscript.


Comparison/Relation of scikits.learn with other projects
--------------------------------------------------------

Personally, I find this the most relevant aspect for a publication about a new
software, but the current manuscript only discusses very few related aspects.
I understand that the manuscript's scope is limited to the Python programing
language, but I think that the reader would benefit from (at least) a short
reference to the fact that there is a lot of machine learning software out
there for almost any computing environment.

But even within the Python-world the differences of scope and purpose of
scikits.learn in comparison with other relevant software is touched in a single
sentence only. And frankly, I don't think that the major difference between
scikits.learn and MDP is the presence of compiled code, or that PyMVPA heavily
relies on R (which it doesn't). I rather think that the main difference of
these projects is their respective target audience, which determines the
desired features set and design, as well as implementation differences. I'm
sure the reader would appreciate some guidelines on when to prefer
scikits.learn over the others, and maybe also when not.

Moreover, I'd be glad to see some information on whether there is any
consolidation going on in the "machine learning in Python" world. Every project
has copy of LIBSVM and uses it with mixed success (as the authors pointed out),
or rather with varying applicability to different datasets (dimensionality,
#observations).

I know that there is at least an initial attempt in PyMVPA to make scikit.learn
functionality available inside this framework. The authors point out the
advantages of the framework-free implementation of scikits.learn that should
make it possible to easily use this code in other projects too. Are the authors
actively working with others on such a consolidation? Are there any limitations
in scikits.learn that would prevent or delay this? Where do the authors want to
positions scikits.learn in this ecosystem?

I understand that manuscript needs to comply to strict length-constraints.
However, I'd find information of practical relevance to a reader evaluating the
suitability of scikits.learn for a particular project much more useful than the
description of "3. Underlying technologies" -- especially because the
manuscript's scope is limited to Python and these technologies are fairly
common to all software for this purpose in the field.


Benchmarks
----------

I think that this section must mention the versions of all tested software to
allow the reader to judge whether the presented results are still relevant for
the respective current releases, or might have changed because of performance
improvements implemented in the meantime. It looks like the benchmarks were
computed using development versions, but at least some date and branch
information should be given.  Moreover, I believe that a benchmark based on a
single dataset with a particular dimensionality and sample size cannot be used
to make comprehensive speed assessments. It is perfectly possible that the
situation changes for smaller or larger datasets.

Overall, I'm a bit concerned about the validity and reliability of these
benchmarks. In particular:

a) impact of differences in convergence tolerance settings -- have they been
   controlled/equalized or left on "default"

   According to the available benchmark source code all parameter settings
   beyond essential hyperparameters (e.g. SVM's C) have been left on their
   respective (varying?) defaults.

b) model quality -- were the performances of all software actually similar?

   Speed of result production is only relevant if the quality of the results is
   not degraded. That should have lees impact on algorithms where the underlying
   implementation is actually shared, but might have an impact elsewhere, i.e.
   quicker but maybe inappropriate tie breaking algorithm...

c) Reliability of the performance estimates?

   The two result charts that are linked from the github page show substantial
   variance -- even for algorithms that should not be affected by convergence
   criteria, e.g. kNN. In contrast to the table in the manuscript, in these
   results:

   http://packages.python.org/milk/benchmarks.html

   scikits.learn is slower than any other tested implementation of kNN. That
   makes me wonder whether the benchmark reliability is negatively impacted by
   random effects and maybe the number of performance estimate samples is too
   low.


